That's as far as we will dive into authentication for now.
So let's do a recap.
An AuthenticationFilter generates an authentication request and
delegates that request to an AuthenticationManager.
The AuthenticationManager then delegates to one or more AuthenticationProviders.
The AuthenticationProviders use a UserDetailsService to
retrieve the credentials from an identity store.
The providers will then return an authenticated principal back to the filter,
which, in turn, will add it to the security context.
The key takeaways here are that if you want to use a
particular authentication strategy,
then you need to configure the appropriate AuthenticationFilter.
If you have multiple identity stores,
then you can configure additional AuthenticationProviders.
And to integrate with an identity store, you need a UserDetailsService.
The SecurityContextHolder is a thread local and makes the authenticated
principal accessible to your application in the current thread.
You can extend it and add additional fields and objects.
But do not store any sensitive data, like credentials and passwords here.
Again, this was an example of a typical authentication flow.
However, Spring is very flexible, and there are exceptions,
like for example the DigestAuthenticationFilter
doesn't use an AuthenticationManager.
It goes directly to a UserDetailsService.
Now this might all seem a lot to take in, but don't worry.
In the subsequent demos,
we'll be customizing and configuring a lot of these
components and seeing how they work real-time. So they will become more familiar to you as you progress in the course.